# TCCv2 - Fault identification in PV system with Machine Learning

Fault identification in photovoltaic systems with three different methods. One using the physical model, another a regression for a specific equation (OE) and the last one using the famous machine learning RF model.

Using two global irradiance banding methods for each model.

Visualization and comparing of the results of each model (ComparingResults).

# Abstract

Data reported by the Brazilian Association of Photovoltaic Solar Energy (ABSOLAR)show exponential growth in solar energy production, with 2022 being considered the best year for solar energy in Brazil. However, the number of monitored photovoltaic systemsdid not follow the same growth trend, being normally operated without an adequate supervisory system, hence the need to implement an online failure status detection system.

This work proposes a study on the fault state detection method that uses instantaneousprediction models of AC power generated by the photovoltaic system. The research was carried out in the SOLETE database, made available by Pombo et al. The base contains measurements of a photovoltaic system and meteorological data over a year and five months.  Three prediction models were used, called physical model, one equation and the famous random forest. For each model, two predictions were made, one in the global irradiance range and the other in separate irradiation ranges, with the purpose of verifying whether this separation of ranges will influence the final results.  In terms of performance, thework reached similar results to the literature, where the three best models reached anaccuracy of more than 99% in the failure state detection. The results demonstrate that the best models were the physical model and the one equation in the separate ranges and the random forest model in the global irradiance range.

Keywords:1.Power Plant. 2.Energy. 3.Photovoltaic. 4.Fault. 5.Detection.

# References

[1] D. V. Pombo, H. W. Bindner, S. V. Spataru, P. E. Sørensen, P. Bacher, Increasing the Accuracy of Hourly Multi-Output Solar Power Forecast with Physics-Informed Machine Learning, Sensors 22 (3) (2022) 749.

[2]  D. V. Pombo, P. Bacher, C. Ziras, H. W. Bindner, S. V. Spataru, P. E. Sørensen, Benchmarking Physics-Informed Machine Learning-based Short Term PV-Power Forecasting Tools, Under Review.

[3] D.V. Pombo, O.G. Gehrke, H.W. Bindner, SOLETE, a 15-month long holistic dataset including:  meteorology, co-located wind and solar PV power from Denmark with various resolutions, Data in Brief. In Press.

Database from:

[4] D. V. Pombo, The SOLETE platform (Jan, 2022).doi:10.11583/DTU.17040626.URL https://data.dtu.dk/articles/software/TheSOLETEplatform/17040626

# Licenses

https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
